#+BEGIN_COMMENT
.. title: Grit: A Kind Word and a Gun
.. slug: grit-kind-word-gun
.. date: 2017-07-31 07:19:11 UTC-04:00
.. tags: draft
.. category: 
.. link: 
.. description: 
.. type: text
#+END_COMMENT

* 


http://avc.com/2017/05/grit/ - 

Fred's quote:
If you hire and manage people, if you run start and run companies, if
you invest in people and their projects, then Grit is a book you
should read.

but people are already looking at the talent pool.

Like Harvard saying so many students are admitted because of grit
related things.

-------------

So far all Duckworth's work on rich people


Geoffrey Canada's results




Kipp - 80% graduation rate claimed
https://garyrubinstein.wordpress.com/2016/01/22/whatever-happened-to-kipp/
https://garyrubinstein.wordpress.com/2017/04/28/4th-best-high-school-in-new-york-is-a-kipp-school-that-doesnt-exist/


I visited one of KIPPs ‘study skills’ classes.  I had read about how
KIPP had developed a program for building skills like resilience and
‘grit’ which were even more important than academics.  So I was very
surprised to see that a big part of the class I saw was dedicated to
explaining a new reward system where the five students in that class
would earn a candy bar each day for a week that they completed just
one of their required homework assignments.  There is no way that Paul
Tough was writing about this when he wrote about how KIPP is
developing character in his latest book.

But my assessment is that this school is a somewhat better than
average, but by no means a place where miracles are happening.  One
thing that makes them better is surely the tiny class size and the
fact that the teachers only teach four classes, which leaves them a
lot of time to help kids individually.  I’ve sometimes thought that as
a reward for teaching a high needs population, all teachers in a
school with high poverty should teach just four classes.  Maybe this
is something we can learn from KIPP.


Gary On TFA:
The most creative,dedicated, driven people can work really hard. and a
few will have the natural ability in addition to these traits that
make them good teachers. But to assume that grit and creativity can
make up for lack of knowledge devalues the education that it takes to
be a teacher. and I include interning and learning from master
teachers in that education.ñ


Duckworth on TFA:
Teachers require grit and lauds TFA but TFAs are temps - so if they
enter profession with goal of 2 years are they really good teachers
and if they're gritty teachers why don't they stay + scripted
curriculum and 5 weeks training - formulaic grit?


Duckworth:
Like a lot of parents I had a strong intuition that grit is enahnced
by doing activities like balet... orpiano ... or football...


says ETS is all about developing tests that predict achievement in
college and workplace 


https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/answer-sheet/wp/2016/05/10/the-problem-with-teaching-grit-to-poor-kids-they-already-have-it-heres-what-they-really-need/?utm_term=.261d5a0381c8


Neurobio - almost failed a class for her major then became her major -
maybe took it too early.


Kipp attrition rateshttp://garyrubinstein.teachforus.org/2011/07/08/kipp-on-trickin-looking-at-the-raw-data/


https://www.washingtonpost.com/blogs/answer-sheet/post/grit-becoming-new-reform-mantra--unfortunately/2012/10/02/bff269a6-0bd5-11e2-bb5e-492c0d30bff6_blog.html?utm_term=.f0a5db8cfc93

Alfie Kohn on to concerns over grit
https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/answer-sheet/wp/2014/04/08/ten-concerns-about-the-lets-teach-them-grit-fad/?utm_term=.3206eb46e0f7



Duckworth in 2016 - don't grade teachers and students on grit:
https://www.nytimes.com/2016/03/27/opinion/sunday/dont-grade-schools-on-grit.html?smid=nytcore-ipad-share&smprod=nytcore-ipa
d
(setq golden-ratio-auto-scale t)
